Okay, so we've done a lot with
components we set up app, but
you're probably thinking at this point,
we need some routes.
It's time [LAUGH] for some routes, there's
a lot to manage with just app.view.
And you're right,
because I would say routing is one of
the things that Nuxt does extremely well.
And so how do we turn on routing?
Because like I said, if right now
you built this and shipped it,
view router will not be included, why?
Because it's not needed, right?
You don't want it to bundle that, but
what we can do is we can create
this folder called pages.
Sorry, pages in that not in the route,
don't make my mistake.
Pages is the game changer for everything.
And what we're gonna do here is we're
gonna create a page called index.vue.
And so if you've been in the industry long
enough, you'll know that whenever you
visit a website, the route directory
of whatever it is, is index.html.
That's actually the page that's
being generated, it's just it's so
common now that it's usually chopped off,
and it's just assumed.
Like the routing knows what to do,
and so it's fewer characters for
you to deal with.
But, basically, this index.vue is
the equivalent of our index.HTML page,
that's the equivalent.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
just write, Home Page, like this.
Okay, so you're thinking like,
okay, great, I have pages come in.
And so once Nuxt detects that page is
here, something's gonna have that reboot.
It's gonna know, okay,
time to bring in view router.
This is great.
But something's funny, hmm,
that's not my homepage.
In fact, that's still app.view.
And so what's important to understand
here is that app.view still,
as you would expect with these frameworks,
this is still like the the king,
the queen,
rules over all the components first.
This is where it first enters.
This is the entry point.
And so because it's the entry point,
I'm gonna go ahead and
let's see, do we need to do anything
with this right now after view?
No, we're not going to.
So what we're gonna do here is,
I'm just gonna copy this cuz I think we're
eventually just gonna move
this to the homepage.
But there is a global component
that we get with Nuxt,
and suddenly I should leave that,
let's leave those global imports.
So there we go.
That's called NuxtPage.
And so, once you put this NuxtPage inside
of your app.view, you'll notice, hey,
Home Page shows up.
And so the way to think of NuxtPage is,
it's basically like a slot.
It's basically router view, for
those who have used vue router or
any other routing library to be honest.
It's a wrapper on that with some
ergonomics, but it basically says, okay,
whatever the page is,
just drop the content in here.
So there's nothing stopping us from being,
Generic Heading, right?
And so what this means is that going
forward that generic heading will be
sitting on top of all of
our pages going forward.
So we're gonna actually now create another
page now because the beauty of Nuxt
routing is that it brings file
based routing to us in an easy way.
So if you've done any sort of manual
routing configuration in the past, you'll
know that every time you created a page,
you have to go inside of your router.
You to import the component, and then you
have to find the route and the path, and
then import the component and
pass the component.
And you did that every single time.
But we know how we want our routes to
look, why can we just infer those things?
So within pages,
if we wanna create a display page,
cuz that's what we had earlier,
essentially, we were displaying data.
We could just say well display.vue.
And so now I can basically
paste this stuff in here.
Let me just eliminate that stuff and
then, yep, that looking pretty good.
Except these imports.
So this is another nice
thing about imports, right?
Every time you move stuff,
you'd have to remap the path.
And so I believe there is an alias,
I believe this will work,
this will take you all
the way back to the route, so
that no matter where you move
you're still in that page.
So to prove that that works real quick,
we're gonna go here, and then let me now,
let me get to the location here.
We can say /display and then there we go.
We actually see our components,
this is great.
But once again for the sake of simplicity,
we don't need this, so it's going bye bye.
Okay, so as we can see, what's nice about
the page directory is that it correlates
to whatever the slashes starting at page.
And so what we're gonna wanna do now is,
let's go ahead and
just grab a navbar component from Bulma
and provide some navigation for our app.
So the way that's gonna work is,
we're gonna go into bulma.io.
Let's go in the Docs, let's grab
a Component, and let's grab that Navbar.
Okay, it makes it really easy
to just copy this whole thing.
And all we're gonna do, is we're gonna
create a component here called TheNavbar.
Now, this is another thing that I
actually do with my component naming,
is that I will actually prefix things
where there should only be one of
the thing on the page.
And the power of this is that,
cuz think about if,
you're building an Ecommerce site and
you have a shopping cart, but
then you have five shopping carts across
your page, that seems a little weird.
There's usually one shopping cart and
that's for a reason,
cuz that's what customers are looking for.
So when you have
the prefix on a component,
it just kind of naturally signals
to people that something's weird.
Why is there the shopping cart five times?
So there's just a little naming convention
that I used that I thought I would share.
Okay, so
obviously there is a lot going on here.
So if we just save this real quick,
and then what we're gonna do for now,
let's go ahead and
just import it directly on our app.view.
So we're gonna say, TheNavbar,
which you can see until actually,
this is a cool part.
Remember when I told you about typing and
automatically finding things.
VS Code is automatically helping me
find the component that I just created,
even though I've never
technically imported it before.
And that's great, and that's one of the
power of having libraries leveraged type
script because we get some of the benefits
of it without doing any additional work.
So now when I hit this and
auto complete that, self close,
we can see inside of our local
hosts as we refresh, there we go.
There's our Bulma header, pretty easy.
So let's see, just to fix things up
a little bit just to make things
seem a little bit more in play,
we're just gonna go ahead and
lets just call this,
we're gonna call it MyRecs.
Let's see if that worked out.
There you go, MyRecs is there.
And I'll explain why
it's called MyRecs later.
We're not gonna worry about, we're just
gonna simplify the HTML a bit right now.
I'm deleting some of the mobile stuff
just to make things a little bit easier.
And then rather than have the navigation
stuff be on the left hand side,
I'm just gonna swap it
over to be on Navbar end.
So that's how this is
currently being organized.
Whoop, I deleted one too many.
And so just by swapping that out, we'll
see here that now everything's moved over.
This feels a little bit more
like a standard navigation bar.
So what I'm gonna wanna do now is we need
to actually hook up our navigation to do
something.
So first thing first,
we're gonna go ahead and
we'll delete that one cuz,
I'll show you why in a second.
So we have this home part, and so
your first question is probably,
well, how do we link to our routes, right?
So there's nothing stopping you
from just going href like this,
this is standard, this works.
But when you do that though,
you're relying on it to basically
externally refresh the page, and
you'll get a brand new payload basically.
And so one of the advantages
of using the frameworks,
while some of it is,
there are trade offs as always.
You instead use the built
in NuxtLink component,
so think of this as router
link is the equivalent.
And so NuxtLink is like a wrapper on that,
and then you can see,
it's the two and then there we go.
And so now we'll go ahead and
actually I'll do one more so
that we can actually see this working.
NuxtLink to /display, and
then we will just call this Display,
just like that.
No wait, I need to close it.
All right, now that we have that you'll
see now that when I click this, wait,
click Home, there you go,
homepage, back display.
Everything works exactly as we expect.
The main thing to keep in mind here
is you might have noticed is that,
I do as of now,
I tried to keep all my components Pascal
case when I'm using them in the template.
Because it's another one of
those signifiers that says,
this is different than any HTML spec.
Or if you have web components, they might
be actually load, there'll be a case and
that kind of stuff.
But this tells me very clearly this
is coming from an external library,
in this case it's coming from Nuxt.